Getting started guide for smallrye-reactive-messaging-kafka (#17830)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/kafka-reactive-getting-started.adoc

////
This guide is maintained in the main Quarkus repository
and pull requests should be submitted there:
https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/tree/main/docs/src/main/asciidoc
////
= Quarkus - Getting Started to SmallRye Reactive Messaging with Apache Kafka

include::./attributes.adoc[]

> This guide demonstrates how your Quarkus application can utilize SmallRye Reactive Messaging to interact with Apache Kafka.

Author: I'll need to add this to the reference guide

== Prerequisites

To complete this guide, you need:

> * less than 15 minutes

Author: I wasn't sure because I added the JSON serialization :)

* an IDE
* JDK 11+ installed with `JAVA_HOME` configured appropriately
* Apache Maven {maven-version}
* A running Kafka cluster, or Docker Compose to start a development cluster
* GraalVM installed if you want to run in native mode.

== Architecture

> In this guide, we are going to generate (random) prices in one component.

Author: 👍 will look into this

However, you can go right to the completed example.

Clone the Git repository: `git clone {quickstarts-clone-url}`, or download an {quickstarts-archive-url}[archive].

The solution is located in the `kafka-quickstart` {quickstarts-tree-url}/kafka-quickstart[directory].

== Creating the Maven Project

First, we need a new project.
Create a new project with the following command:

[source,bash,subs=attributes+]
----
mvn io.quarkus:quarkus-maven-plugin:{quarkus-version}:create \
    -DprojectGroupId=org.acme \
    -DprojectArtifactId=kafka-quickstart \
    -DclassName="org.acme.kafka.PriceResource" \
    -Dpath="/prices" \
    -Dextensions="resteasy-reactive,resteasy-reactive-jackson,smallrye-reactive-messaging-kafka"
cd kafka-quickstart
----

This command generates a Maven project, importing the Reactive Messaging and Kafka connector extensions.

If you already have your Quarkus project configured, you can add the `smallrye-reactive-messaging-kafka`
and `resteasy-jackson` extensions to your project by running the following command in your project base directory:

[source,bash]
----

> ./mvnw quarkus:add-extension -Dextensions="smallrye-reactive-messaging-kafka,resteasy-jackson"

Reviewer: We should also provide the CLI way.

----

This will add the following to your `pom.xml`:

[source,xml]
----

> 

Reviewer: Extra line to be removed.

<dependency>
    <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
    <artifactId>quarkus-resteasy-reactive-jackson</artifactId>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
    <artifactId>quarkus-smallrye-reactive-messaging-kafka</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

[TIP]
.Dev Services
====
No need to start a Kafka broker when using the dev mode or for tests.
Quarkus starts a broker for you automatically.
See xref:kafka-dev-services.adoc[Dev Services for Kafka] for details.
====

== The price object

> 

Reviewer: Missing a sentence explaining what are these "prices".

Create the `src/main/java/org/acme/kafka/Price.java` file, with the following content:

[source,java]
----
package org.acme.kafka;

public class Price {

    public double value;
    public String currency;

>     public Price() { }

Reviewer: What about creating a static `create` method and removing the constructors?

    public Price(double value, String currency) {
        this.value = value;
        this.currency = currency;
    }
}
----

JSON representation of `Price` objects will be used in messages sent to the Kafka topic
and also server-sent events sent to browser clients.

Quarkus has built-in capabilities to deal with JSON Kafka messages.
In a following section we will create serializer/deserializer classes for Jackson.

== The price generator

> Create the `src/main/java/org/acme/kafka/PriceGenerator.java` file, with the following content:

Reviewer: We need to decide which approach we take. From the use case we had, we should use an emitter-based approach, with a simple endpoint.

[source,java]
----
package org.acme.kafka;

import java.time.Duration;
import java.util.Random;

import javax.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;

import io.smallrye.mutiny.Multi;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.reactive.messaging.Outgoing;

/**
 * A bean producing random prices every 5 seconds.
 * The prices are written to a Kafka topic (prices).
 * The Kafka configuration is specified in the application configuration.
 */
@ApplicationScoped
public class PriceGenerator {

    private Random random = new Random();

    @Outgoing("generated-price")                        // <1>
    public Multi<Integer> generate() {                  // <2>
        return Multi.createFrom().ticks().every(Duration.ofSeconds(5))

>                 .onOverflow().drop()

Reviewer: Advantage of the emitter -> no need to handle the overflow!

                .map(tick -> new Price(random.nextInt(100), "$"));
    }

}
----
<1> Instruct Reactive Messaging to dispatch the items from returned stream to `generated-price`.
<2> The method returns a Mutiny _stream_ (`Multi`) emitting a `Price` object containing random prices, every 5 seconds.

> The method returns a _Reactive Stream_.

Reviewer: Why reactive streams? It's a `Multi`. Not sure you want to mention it here.

The generated items are sent to the stream named `generated-price`.

> This stream is mapped to Kafka using the `application.properties` file that we will create soon.

Reviewer: stream -> channel.

== The price converter

The price converter reads the prices from Kafka, and transforms them.
Create the `src/main/java/org/acme/kafka/PriceConverter.java` file with the following content:

[source, java]
----
package org.acme.kafka;

import org.eclipse.microprofile.reactive.messaging.Incoming;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.reactive.messaging.Outgoing;

import javax.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;

/**
 * A bean consuming data from the "prices" Kafka topic and applying some conversion.

>  * The result is pushed to the "my-data-stream" stream which is an in-memory stream.

Reviewer: stream -> channel.

    @Outgoing("my-data-stream")                             // <2>
    public Price process(Price priceInUsd) {
        return new Price(priceInUsd.value * CONVERSION_RATE, "€");
    }

}
----
<1> Indicates that the method consumes the items from the `prices` topic
<2> Indicates that the objects returned by the method are sent to the `my-data-stream` stream

The `process` method is called for every Kafka _record_ from the `prices` topic (configured in the application configuration).
Every result is sent to the `my-data-stream` in-memory stream.

== The price resource

Let's bind our stream to a JAX-RS resource and send events to clients.
Create the `src/main/java/org/acme/kafka/PriceResource.java` file with the following content:

[source,java]
----
package org.acme.kafka;

import javax.inject.Inject;
import javax.ws.rs.GET;
import javax.ws.rs.Path;
import javax.ws.rs.Produces;
import javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType;

import org.eclipse.microprofile.reactive.messaging.Channel;
import org.reactivestreams.Publisher;

/**
 * A simple resource retrieving the prices topic and sending the items to a server sent event.
 */
@Path("/prices")
public class PriceResource {

    @Inject

>     @Channel("my-data-stream") Publisher<Price> prices; // <1>

Reviewer: Publisher -> Multi

    @GET

>     @Path("/stream")

Reviewer: /prices maybe ?

    @Produces(MediaType.SERVER_SENT_EVENTS) // <2>

>     public Publisher<Price> stream() { // <3>

Reviewer: Publisher -> Multi

        return prices;
    }
}
----
<1> Injects the `my-data-stream` channel using the `@Channel` qualifier
<2> Indicates that the content is sent using `Server Sent Events`
<3> Returns the stream (_Reactive Stream_)

== JSON serialization via Jackson

Finally, we will configure JSON serialization for messages using Jackson.
Quarkus provides default implementations for Kafka serializer/deserializer pairs using Jackson `ObjectMapper`.

> `ObjectMapperSerializer` can be used to serialize all pojos via Jackson.

Reviewer: I would replace "pojos", but I don't have a better name. 
(pojo is not used anymore)

Author: I went with "objects"

So, let's create `src/main/java/org/acme/kafka/PriceDeserializer.java`

[source,java]
----
package org.acme.kafka;

import io.quarkus.kafka.client.serialization.ObjectMapperDeserializer;

public class PriceDeserializer extends ObjectMapperDeserializer<Price> {
    public PriceDeserializer() {
        // pass the class to the parent.
        super(Price.class);
    }
}
----

[TIP]
====
.Message serialization in Kafka
In this example we used Jackson to serialize/deserialize Kafka messages.
For more options on message serialization see <<kafka-serialization>>.

We strongly suggest adopting a contract-first approach using a schema registry.
To learn more about how to use Apache Kafka with the schema registry and Avro follow the link:kafka-schema-registry-avro.adoc[Using Apache Kafka with Schema Registry and Avro] guide.
====

== Configuring the Kafka connector

We need to configure the Kafka connector.
This is done in the `application.properties` file.
The keys are structured as follows:

`mp.messaging.[outgoing|incoming].{channel-name}.property=value`

The `channel-name` segment must match the value set in the `@Incoming` and `@Outgoing` annotation:

> * `generated-price` -> sink in which we write the prices

Reviewer: I would remove sink and source. They seem to be leftovers from the "Fluid" times (that predated RM)

[source,properties]
----

# Configure the Kafka sink (we write to it)
mp.messaging.outgoing.generated-price.connector=smallrye-kafka
mp.messaging.outgoing.generated-price.topic=prices
mp.messaging.outgoing.generated-price.value.serializer=io.quarkus.kafka.client.serialization.ObjectMapperSerializer

# Configure the Kafka source (we read from it)
mp.messaging.incoming.prices.connector=smallrye-kafka
mp.messaging.incoming.prices.topic=prices
mp.messaging.incoming.prices.value.deserializer=org.acme.kafka.PriceDeserializer

----

This configuration does not set the Kafka _bootstrap.servers_.
Quarkus starts a Kafka broker automatically and configures the application.
See xref:kafka-dev-services.adoc[Dev Services for Kafka] for more details.

More details about this configuration is available on the https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#producerconfigs[Producer configuration] and https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#consumerconfigs[Consumer configuration] section from the Kafka documentation. These properties are configured with the prefix `kafka`. An exhaustive list of configuration properties is available in <<kafka-configuration>>.

> NOTE: What about `my-data-stream`? This is an in-memory stream, not connected to a message broker.

Reviewer: stream -> channel

== The HTML page

Final touch, the HTML page reading the converted prices using SSE.

Create the `src/main/resources/META-INF/resources/prices.html` file, with the following content:

[source, html]
----

<!DOCTYPE html> <html lang="en"> <head> <meta charset="UTF-8"> <title>Prices</title>

    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
          href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/patternfly/3.24.0/css/patternfly.min.css">
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
          href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/patternfly/3.24.0/css/patternfly-additions.min.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="container">

    <h2>Last price</h2>
    <div class="row">
    <p class="col-md-12">The last price is <strong><span id="value">N/A</span>&nbsp;<span id="currency"></span></strong>.</p>
    </div>
</div>
</body>

> <script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.3.1.min.js"></script>

Reviewer: Maybe time to update jquery....

////
This guide is maintained in the main Quarkus repository
and pull requests should be submitted there:
https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/tree/main/docs/src/main/asciidoc
////
= Quarkus - Getting Started to SmallRye Reactive Messaging with Apache Kafka

include::./attributes.adoc[]

This guide demonstrates how your Quarkus application can utilize SmallRye Reactive Messaging to interact with Apache Kafka.

== Prerequisites

To complete this guide, you need:

* less than 15 minutes
* an IDE
* JDK 11+ installed with `JAVA_HOME` configured appropriately
* Apache Maven {maven-version}
* GraalVM installed if you want to run in native mode.

== Architecture

In this guide, we are going to develop two microservices for an application that will ask for some price and receive quotes from providers in real-time.

The first component, the `producer`, will let the user request some quotes over a JAX-RS endpoint.
For each quote request a random identifier is generated and returned to the user, to put the quote request on _pending_.
At the same time the generated request id is sent over a Kafka topic `quote-requests`.

> 

Author: 👍

    @Channel("quote-requests") Emitter<String> quoteRequestEmitter; // <1>

    /**
     * Endpoint to generate a new quote request id and send it to "quote-requests" Kafka topic using the emitter.
     */
    @POST
    @Path("/request")
    @Produces(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
    public String createRequest() {
        UUID uuid = UUID.randomUUID();
        quoteRequestEmitter.send(uuid.toString()); // <2>
        return uuid.toString();
    }
}
----
<1> Inject a Reactive Messaging `Emitter` to send messsages to the `quote-requests` channel.
<2> On a post request, generate a random UUID and send it to the Kafka topic using the emitter.

This channel is mapped to Kafka using the configuration we will add to the `application.properties` file:

[source, properties]
----
# Configure the outgoing Kafka topic quote-requests
mp.messaging.outgoing.quote-requests.connector=smallrye-kafka
----

All we need to specify is the `smallrye-kafka` connector.
By default reactive messaging will map the channel name `quote-requests` to the Kafka topic name.
The serializer for `String` is automatically configured.

== Processing quote requests

Now let's consume the quote request and give out a price.

> Inside the `processor` project locate the `src/main/java/org/acme/kafka/processor/QuoteProcessor.java` file and add the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside the `processor` project, locate the `src/main/java/org/acme/kafka/processor/QuoteProcessor.java` file and add the following:
```

As with the previous example we need to configure the connectors in the `application.properties` file:

[source, properties]
----
%dev.quarkus.http.port=8081

# Configure the incoming Kafka topic `quote-requests`
mp.messaging.incoming.requests.connector=smallrye-kafka
mp.messaging.incoming.requests.topic=quote-requests
mp.messaging.incoming.requests.auto.offset.reset=earliest

# Configure the outgoing Kafka topic `quotes`
mp.messaging.outgoing.quotes.connector=smallrye-kafka
mp.messaging.outgoing.quotes.value.serializer=io.quarkus.kafka.client.serialization.ObjectMapperSerializer
----

Note that in this case we have one incoming and one outgoing connector configuration, each one distinctly named.
The configuration keys are structured as follows:

`mp.messaging.[outgoing|incoming].{channel-name}.property=value`

The `channel-name` segment must match the value set in the `@Incoming` and `@Outgoing` annotation:

* `quote-requests` -> Kafka topic from which we read the quote requests
* `quotes` -> Kafka topic in which we write the quotes

[NOTE]
====

> More details about this configuration is available on the https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#producerconfigs[Producer configuration] and https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#consumerconfigs[Consumer configuration] section from the Kafka documentation. These properties are configured with the prefix `kafka`. An exhaustive list of configuration properties is available in <<kafka-configuration>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More details about this configuration is available on the https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#producerconfigs[Producer configuration] and https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#consumerconfigs[Consumer configuration] section from the Kafka documentation. These properties are configured with the prefix `kafka`. A list of the most used configuration properties is available in <<kafka-configuration>>.
```

Reviewer: The kafka configuration section should probably be in the reference guide (and so use xref)

====

Also for the outgoing configuration we specified the serializer because we are sending a `Quote` object as the message payload.

Quarkus provides default implementations for Kafka serializer/deserializer pairs using Jackson `ObjectMapper`.
`ObjectMapperSerializer` can be used to serialize all objects via Jackson.

== Receiving quotes

Back to our `producer` project.

> Let's modify the `QuotesResource` to consume quotes, bind it to a JAX-RS resource and send events to clients:

Reviewer: Not sure we need to mention JAX-RS. What about `bind it to a HTTP endpoint to send events to browsers`.

Author: 👍

[source,java]
----
import io.smallrye.mutiny.Multi;
[...]

> @Inject

Reviewer: @Inject can be ommited.

    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
          href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/patternfly/3.24.0/css/patternfly-additions.min.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="container">
    <div class="card">
        <div class="card-body">
            <h2 class="card-title">Quotes</h2>
            <button class="btn btn-info" id="request-quote">Request Quote</button>
            <div class="quotes"></div>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
</body>
<script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.6.0.min.js"></script>
<script>
    $("#request-quote").click((event) => {
        fetch("/quotes/request", {method: "POST"})
        .then(res => res.text())
        .then(qid => {
            var row = $(`<h4 class='col-md-12' id='${qid}'>Quote # <i>${qid}</i> | <strong>Pending</strong></h4>`);
            $(".quotes").append(row);
        });
    });
    var source = new EventSource("/quotes");
    source.onmessage = (event) => {
      var json = JSON.parse(event.data);
      $(`#${json.id}`).html(function(index, html) {
        return html.replace("Pending", `\$\xA0${json.price}`);
      });
    };
</script>
</html>
----

Nothing spectacular here.

> On each received price, it updates the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On each received quote, it updates the page.
```

> 

Reviewer: Maybe explain that you need to click the button.

== Get it running

You just need to run both applications using:

[source,bash]
----
./mvnw -f producer quarkus:dev
./mvnw -f processor quarkus:dev
----

Quarkus starts a Kafka broker automatically, configures the application and shares the Kafka broker instance between different applications.
See xref:kafka-dev-services.adoc[Dev Services for Kafka] for more details.

> Open `http://localhost:8080/quotes.html` in your browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open `http://localhost:8080/quotes.html` in your browser and click the button to request quotes.
```

      KAFKA_LISTENERS: PLAINTEXT://0.0.0.0:9092
      KAFKA_ZOOKEEPER_CONNECT: zookeeper:2181
    networks:
      - kafkaquickstart-network

  producer:
    image: quarkus-quickstarts/kafka-quickstart-producer:1.0
    build:
      context: producer
      dockerfile: src/main/docker/Dockerfile.${QUARKUS_MODE:-jvm}
    environment:
      KAFKA_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS: kafka:9092
    ports:
      - "8080:8080"
    networks:
      - kafkaquickstart-network

  processor:
    image: quarkus-quickstarts/kafka-quickstart-processor:1.0
    build:
      context: processor
      dockerfile: src/main/docker/Dockerfile.${QUARKUS_MODE:-jvm}
    environment:
      KAFKA_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS: kafka:9092
    networks:
      - kafkaquickstart-network

networks:
  kafkaquickstart-network:
    name: kafkaquickstart
----

Make sure you first build both applications in JVM mode with:

[source, bash]
----
./mvnw package
----

Once packaged, run `docker-compose up`.

NOTE: This is a development cluster, do not use in production.

== Going further

This guide has shown how you can interact with Kafka using Quarkus.
It utilizes SmallRye Reactive Messaging to build data streaming applications.

> If you want to go further check the documentation of https://smallrye.io/smallrye-reactive-messaging[SmallRye Reactive Messaging], the implementation used in Quarkus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to go further check the documentation of https://smallrye.io/smallrye-reactive-messaging[SmallRye Reactive Messaging].
```
